The EVM is a virtual machine where smart contracts and transactions get executed. Think of VirtualBox or VMware with the Ethereum operating system. They are emulations of a physical computer, in order to create a clean environment where applications can communicate with the CPU. This type of virtual machine processes transactions, blocks, and smart contracts uniformly for all users. It keeps hundreds of computers connected, so it's very important to have enough security to protect each node from potential attacks. Some of the security systems that are implemented are as follows:

- **Gas:** Every transaction must be paid before being executed to avoid abusive behaviors where some nodes send unlimited transactions without any intention of paying them.
- **Peer-to-peer communication:** Nodes can only communicate via messages by sending and receiving data, which means that they can't access each other's data.
- **Deterministic:** This means that the initial state will always produce the same results. For instance, adding two numbers will result in the same exact result if they are the same. This is important to make consensus possible because it allows others to verify that the transactions are indeed valid; otherwise, it would be impossible to verify transactions and consensus would be limited given that the same state results in different calculations.
- **Sandboxed execution:** Since this is a virtual machine, smart contracts using it can't have access to the outside computer making all the transactions possible. Only smart contracts can interact with each other with a limited scope.

To fully understand how the EVM works, we have to go deeper into the assembly language that keeps this system together. Ideally, we could understand bytecode language, which is what computers process, but because we can't, we've created an abstraction for each process in a language called assembly that can be easily translated to bytecode for processors to compute.
